.\"
.\" getcfg manual page
.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Hannes Reinecke, SuSE AG
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This file is under the GPL.
.\"
.TH GETCFG 8 "April 2004" "sysconfig" "Hardware configuration"
.SH NAME
getcfg \- matches a configuration file to a configuration
.br
getcfg-parse-hwdesc \- Parses a configuration name
.br
getcfg-make-hwdesc \- Returns a valid configuration name
.br
getcfg-device \- returns the matching device
.br
getcfg-interface \- returns the matching interface
.br
getcfg-all-info \- returns the sysfs information matching a
configuration name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B getcfg{-parse-hwdesc,-make-hwdesc,-device,-interface,-all-info}
.I cfg-name
.B  [
.I options
.B ] [
.I args
.B]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The configuration names passed as
.I cfg-name
refer to a set of configuration data. Hardware
descriptions as found in
.I /etc/sysconfig/{hardware|network}
are configuration names that indicate exactly one device. The
.B getcfg-*
family of programs is a configuration finder that looks for the best
matching available configuration for a given hardware description.
.P
The individual programs have the following function:
.B getcfg-parse-hwdesc
Parses the hardware description
.I hw-description
and checks whether it complies with the device naming rules specified below.
.P
.B getcfg-get-all-info
Parses the hardware description
.I hw-description
an returns information found in the
corresponding sysfs attributes. It returns a list of variables which
can be used in device-dependant initialisation scripts.
.P
.B getcfg
Parses
.I hw-description
and returns the matching configuration file (if any).
.P
.B getcfg-device
(Not yet implemented)
.P
.B getcfg-interface
Parses
.I hw-description
and returns the interface matching to this configuration.
.P
.B getcfg-make-hwdesc
Returns a valid configuration name base on the variables passed in
.I args

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "The following are options can be specified."
.IP "-c, --config"
<arg> is a configuration name and not a hardware description
.IP "-d dir, --directory=dir"
look for configurations in <dir>
.IP "-f prefix, --file-prefix=prefix"
use <prefix> as prefix for configuration files
.IP "-h, --help"
print usage information
.IP "-i, --ifacetype"
set the interfacetype to look for in getcfg-interface
.IP "-l, --literally"
take hardware description literally and don't complete it
.IP "-m, --multiarg"
take multiple arguments like when called as getcfg-make-hwdesc
.IP "-e, --noexport"
Don't print a final line 'export <list of varaibles>'
.IP "-p prefix, --prefix=prefix"
Use this prefix for variable names (default: 'HWD_')
.IP "-t <t>, --type=<t>"
Choose the type of hardware description
.IP "-v n, --verbose=<n>"
Set the verbosity level to <n> (or specify multiple times)

.SH "DEVICE NAMING RULES"
Configuration names describe the device or interface they belong
to. They need not to describe it exactly because they may be used for
several devices or for a device plugged in at different
locations. There are different types of configuration names. They may
contain a (parts of) a individual number like link layer addresses or
serial numbers. Alternatively they may describe (parts of) the
location or specify the type of the device. To be backward compatible
they may also just be the interface name traditionally given by the
kernel.
.P
The configuration names consist of several parts which are seperated
by a hyphen '-'.
.P
The parts of a configuration name must comply to the following rules:
.ta 0 1.5i 3i
.fc # !
.br
#!<config name>#:=#[<device type>-]{<interface name>|<device description>}#
.br
#!<device description>#:=#{id-<identifier>#
.br
#!#  #|bus-<bus location>#
.br
#!#  #|devpath-<sysfs devpath>}#
.br
#!#  #|interface-<interface name>}#
.br
#!#  #|vpid-<vendor id>[-<product id>[-<vendor sub id>[-<product sub id>]]]#
.br
#!#  #|type-<device type>#
.br
#!<bus location>#:=#<bus name>[-<bus id>][-<bus location>]#
.br
#!#  ##
.br
#!<device type>#:=#Any valid string except "id", "bus", "devpath",#
.br
#!#  #"interface", "vpid", or "type".#
.br
#!#  #This describes the type of the device. We will use the#
.br
#!#  #event types from hotplug for this purpose. If there is#
.br
#!#  #need for a finer differentiation we will have to specify#
.br
#!#  #it here in this document.#
.br
#!<interface name>#:=#Any valid string#
.br
#!#  #The interface name or the device file.#
.br
#!<identifier>#:=#Any valid string#
.br
#!#  #The identifier for this device. The interpretation of#
.br
#!#  #the identifier depends on the device type. For this#
.br
#!#  #reason the device type is mandatory when using "id".#
.br
#!<vendor id>#:=#Any valid string#
.br
#!<vendor sub id>#:=#Any valid string#
.br
#!<product id>#:=#Any valid string#
.br
#!<product sub id>#:=#Any valid string#
.br
#!#  #These are identifiers that describe the product and not#
.br
#!#  #an individual device. Think of PCI ids for example.#
.br
#!<bus name>#:=#{pci|scsi|ide|pcmcia|usb|ieee1394|css|ccw}#
.br
#!<bus id>#:=#Any valid string except a bus name#
.br
#!<sysfs devpath>#:=#Any path in /sys#
.br
#!Any valid string#:=#String that does not contain characters which#
.br
#!#  #are invalid in a filename (e.g. a slash '/').#
.fc

.SH EXAMPLES
The following examples are meant to give an overview how the device
naming rules can be applied to actual devices.
.TP 
.B bus-pci-0000:00:07.2
Any device in PCI slot 0000:00:07.2.
.TP 
.B bus-pci-0000:03:05.0-scsi-0:0:1:0
The SCSI target 0:0:1:0 accessed via SCSI HBA in PCI slot
0000:03:05.0. Note that the HBA number are counted relative
to the PCI slot, so the first HBA in a PCI slot will always
have HBA number 0.
.TP 
.B eth-id-00:01:02:8E:21:9
An ethernet device with id (MAC address) 00:01:02:8E:21:9.
.TP
.B iucv-id-ROUTER01
S/390 iucv device with id (link partner) 'ROUTER01'.

.SH BUGS
Please report bugs at <http://www.suse.de/feedback>
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Christian Zoz <zoz@suse.de> -- hwup script
Michal Svec <msvec@suse.cz> -- hwup script
Hannes Reinecke <hare@suse.de> -- S/390 configuration
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR hwup(8),
.br
.BR /etc/sysconfig/hardware/*,
.br
.BR /etc/sysconfig/hardware/skel/*

