.\"
.\" hwup manual page
.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Hannes Reinecke, SuSE AG
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This file is under the GPL.
.\"
.TH HWUP 8 "April 2004" "sysconfig" "Hardware configuration"
.SH NAME
hwup \- start a pre-configured hardware device.
.br
hwdown \- stop a (pre-configured) hardware device.
.br
hwstatus \- show the state of a (pre-configured) hardware device.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hw{up,down,status}
.B [
.I <configuration-name>
.B ]
.I <hardware-description>
.B [-o 
.I options
.B ]
.SH NOTATION
We use the terms 
.B configuration, interface 
and
.B device
in a dedicated way. A
.B device
is always the piece of hardware representing a physically or logically
present hardware, e.g. a PCI- or PCMCIA-card or an USB device. An
.B interface
then is the name of the corresponding interface it gets from the
kernel when the device has been registered. A 
.B configuration
is a set of parameters which are required for the initialization of the
device like modules or initialization scripts.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hwup
is used to initialize a device. It is usually invoked by the hotplug
subsystem. It can also be used to configure devices manually on the
command line. It loads the specified modules and calls any configured
initialization scripts required to initialize the device and/or binds
the device to the corresponding driver. If a device was unbound from 
its driver (e.g. by
.BR hwdown )
it will bind it again.
.P
.B hwdown
is used to deconfigure a device. It should be called to fully
deconfigure a device so that a next call to
.B hwup
will succeed. hwdown doesn't unload the modules any longer, but it just
unbinds the device from its driver. So hwdown shouldn't affect other devices
served by the same driver.
.P
.B hwstatus
Displays the status of the device.
.P
.I <hardware-description>
describes the device that should be initialized. It has to be compliant with the
device naming rules as specified in getcfg.8. getcfg is used to look for the
best matching configuration for this device.  Every configuration is stored in
files below
.I /etc/sysconfig/hardware
which are named 
.BI hwcfg- <configuration-name> . 
.br
Currently this hardware-description is mostly not used for anything else then
looking for the right configuration, but this might change in future. Hopefully
we will soon get more control over individual devices via sysfs.
.P
.I <configuration-name> 
is the name of a configuration that should be used to set up the device. It may
be used to circumvent the automatic search for a configuration with getcfg. In
this case the configuration names are not restricted. For example if you have a
configuration file hwcfg-my-special you may call hwup my-special <hwdesc>. If
this configuration does not need information about the device (for example if
just loading modules) <hwdesc> may be any string.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "The following are options can be specified after the -o switch."
.IP auto
Only set up the device if the configuration has the STARTMODE=auto. 
.IP hotplug
Only set up the device if the configuration has the STARTMODE=auto. This is
nearly equivalent to auto, just some messages were omitted.
.\" .IP debug
.\" Be verbose.

.SH FILES
.B /sbin/hw{up,down,status}
.RS
The scripts themselves.
.RE
.B /etc/sysconfig/hardware/hwcfg-*
.RS
The files containing the configuration of the devices. 
.RE
.B /etc/sysconfig/hardware/scripts
.RS
Helper scripts used to configure individual devices. They are called
if specified via the parameter
.B SCRIPTUP
or
.B SCRIPTDOWN
in the configuration file as specified below.
.RE
.B /etc/sysconfig/hardware/skel
.RS
Template file for the various device types.

.SH VARIABLES
The following is a list of variables that can be put in the
configuration file, with an
example in parentheses.
.TP 
.BR STARTMODE (auto|manual|off)
Choose when the configuration should be activated. Automatic via the hotplug
system at boot time or when plugged, manually by the sysadmin or not at all.
.TP 
.B MODULE
The module to load for this device. If multiple modules have to be loaded then
uses this variable multiple times with any suffix appended. You must then use
the same suffixes for multiple MODULE_OPTIONS variables. Example:
.nf
        MODULE_A="foo"
        MODULE_B="bar"
        MODULE_OPTIONS_A="foo-opt"
        MODULE_OPTIONS_B="bar-opt1=xyz bar-opt2=off"
.fi
.TP
.B MODULE_OPTIONS
Options to pass to this module for insmod.8 or modprobe.8. Options for multiple
modules will be specified by using the same suffixes of the MODULES variable.
Note that you should prefer to set module options in
.IR /etc/modprobe.conf .
.TP
.B DRIVER
The driver to use for this device. In most cases the driver name is the same
as the module name, but this is not always the case! Specify this variable to 
ensure that the bind/unbind feature works properly.
.br
If you don't like unbinding devices at all, then set
.B DRIVER=skip
either locally in
.I hwcfg-*
or globally in
.IR /etc/sysconfig/hardware/config .
.TP
.B SCRIPT{UP,DOWN}_[type]
Script to be called for the initialization / deconfiguration of a
specific device type. This script is
called if the type of the device to be initialized matches the
.I type
given in this parameter. This script must be specified relative to
.IR /etc/sysconfig/hardware/config .
.TP
.B SCRIPT{UP,DOWN}
Script to be called for the initialization / deconfiguration of the
device. It will only be called if no matching type-specific script are
configured. This script must be specified relative to
.IR /etc/sysconfig/hardware/config .
.TP
.B PRE_UP_SCRIPT
.TP
.B POST_UP_SCRIPT
.TP
.B PRE_DOWN_SCRIPT
.TP
.B POST_DOWN_SCRIPT
These scripts will be called according to their names pre or post all other actions
in hwup or hwdown. They will be called always independent if
.B SCRIPT{UP,DOWN}
or
.B SCRIPT{UP,DOWN}_[type] 
are set. They may be specified relative to
.I /etc/sysconfig/hardware/config
or may be absolute pathnames.

.SH S/390 specific variables
The following list of variables are valid on S/390 architectures only.
.TP 
.B CCW_CHAN_NUM
Number of CCW channels required for this device. Default values are 3
for qeth, 2 for 3088 type-devices (ctc, lcs), 1 for all other devices.
.TP
.B CCW_CHAN_IDS
CCW IDS for this device, separated by spaces. The number of CCW IDS
specified must match the number of CCW IDs required as specified by
.B CCW_CHAN_NUM
.TP
.B CCW_CHAN_MODE
(ctc, qeth devices only) The protocol number (for ctc) or port name
(for qeth) for this device. For CTC device the valid choices
are
.I 0
for compatibility mode,
.I 1
for extended mode,
.I 2
for CTC-base tty (Linux-Linux) connections, or
.I 3
for compatibility mode with OS/390 and z/OS.
.TP
.B ZFCP_LUNS
(zfcp only). A list of configured zfcp devices. Entries in this
list should be separated with a space. Each entry consists of the zfcp
WWPN and zfcp LUN for this device, separated by a colon ':'. The zfcp
WWPN and zfcp LUN are 8-byte hexadecimal numbers prefixed by '0x',
e.g.
.I 0x5005076300c590a9:0x0001000000000000
.TP
.B DASD_USE_DIAG
(dasd only). If set to
.I 1
, enable DIAG access to this device. DIAG access is only possible for
S/390 DASD devices in 31-bit mode running under z/VM, so it can not be
guaranteed that DIAG access can be enabled for this device.

.SH GENERAL VARIABLES
There are some general settings in the file
.BR /etc/sysconfig/hardware/config .
.TP
.B DEBUG
.TP
.B USE_SYSLOG
.TP
Please see the description of these variables in 
.BR /etc/sysconfig/hardware/config .

.\" .SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" .B hwstatus
.\" .I device
.SH BUGS
hwstatus is still not implemented.
.P
Please report bugs at <http://www.suse.de/feedback>
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Christian Zoz <zoz@suse.de> -- hwup script
Hannes Reinecke <hare@suse.de> -- S/390 configuration
Stefan Scheler <sscheler@suse.de>
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR getcfg(8),
.br
.BR /etc/sysconfig/hardware/*,
.br
.BR /etc/sysconfig/hardware/skel/*

