.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH IFCFG-BONDING 5 "April 2005" "sysconfig" "Network configuration"
.\" ...

.SH NAME
ifcfg-bonding \- interface bonding configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/sysconfig/network/ifcfg-bond*


.SH Bonding Interfaces
To setup a bonding interface you need a configuration file ifcfg-bond<X> with
the usual network settings. But you must add additional variables
.TP
.B BONDING_MASTER
must be set to 'yes' to identify this interface as a bonding interface
.TP
.B BONDING_SLAVE_<X>
here you specify the interface name representing the slave network interfaces.

\fBNote\fR:
Please adopt the /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules rule file to match
the hardware by BUS id and not by the MAC address (default). Using MAC address,
it is not possible to replace a defect NIC with a new one (having a different
MAC), without to adopt either the MAC or the name of the slave interface in the
configuration files.
.br
Note also: Bonding slave interfaces are reserved for the bonding and are not
usable for any another purposes (unlike e.g. interfaces used for VLANs) and
the bonding master manages the slaves itself, e.g. it sets the MAC address
on the slaves. To configure this accordingly, set BOOTPROTO=none in the ifcfg
file of each slave interfaces to avoids any link-layer or IP setup on these
interfaces.
.TP
.B BONDING_MODULE_OPTS
contains bonding options. Here you can set interface timeouts or working modes
('mode=active-backup' for backup mode). For additional information take a look
into the documentation mentioned at the bottom.
Note, that this options are not passed as parameters to the bonding kernel
module any more, but set via sysfs interface. This variable will be renamed
in the feature.
.TP
.B BONDING_MASTER_UP_ENSLAVE
This option allows to revert the change and set the master "link up" 
before enslave.
Older kernels required bonding master in "link up" state while enslave.
Recent kernels have been adopted to allow enslave in down state and 
this seems to work better, faster and avoids several (false) problems,
because in "link down" state, several async actions aren't started at
"set up" or enslave time of the first slave and need to be aborted or
repeated later.
.TP
.B BONDING_SKIP_REMOVE_WORKAROUND
When set to "yes", a bonding interface will be not removed while ifdown any
more to avoid problems, e.g. when some third party kernel module, such as
Veritas 'llt' module, does not react correctly to the UNREGISTER event and
does not remove its references to the bonding interface causing all network
related operation to stuck.

\fBNote\fR: the bonding options are not reverted when this option is enabled
and it is required to either explicitly keep the old options and set them to
their default setting on bonding configuration changes or to reboot.

.SH Example 
Example for a bonding interface on eth0 and eth1 using the backup mode.

.I ifcfg-bond0
.nf
   STARTMODE='onboot'
   BOOTPROTO='static'
   IPADDR='192.168.0.1/24'
   BONDING_MASTER='yes'
   BONDING_SLAVE_0='eth0'
   BONDING_SLAVE_1='eth1'
   BONDING_MODULE_OPTS='mode=active-backup miimon=100'
.fi

.I ifcfg-eth0
.nf
   STARTMODE='hotplug'
   BOOTPROTO='none'
   #ETHTOOL_OPTIONS='wol g'
.fi

.I ifcfg-eth1
.nf
   STARTMODE='hotplug'
   BOOTPROTO='none'
   #ETHTOOL_OPTIONS='wol g'
.fi

\fBNote\fR, that the slaves are configured with BOOTPROTO='none', what avoids
a link layer and IP setup of the slaves. Further also STARTMODE='hotplug',
allowing that some (all) of the slaves are allowed to be missed at boot time.
The hotplug slaves will be added to the bond as soon as are become available
(udev BUS based persistent name rule or manual ifup bond0 is required).
The network script waits for the slaves, but when there is no slave available
at bonding start time (boot time), the bonding creation will fail and also
the network script will report an error.

.SH Additional Information

For additional and more general information take a look into
.BR /usr/src/linux/Documentation/networking/bonding.txt.
Maybe you need to install the kernel sources to get this additional
documentation.
 
The configuration of routes for this kind of interface does not differ from
ordinary interfaces. See
.I man routes 
for details.

.SH BUGS
Please report bugs at <http://www.suse.de/feedback>
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Christian Zoz <zoz@suse.de> -- ifup script
Wilken Gottwalt <wgottwalt@suse.de> -- ifcfg-bonding manual page 
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ifcfg (5),
.BR ifup (8).
