.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH IFCFG 5 "August 2004" "sysconfig" "Network configuration"
.\" ...

.SH NAME
ifcfg \- common elements of network interface configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/sysconfig/network/ifcfg-*
.SH VARIABLES
The following is a list of variables that can be put in the
configuration file, with an
example in parentheses.
* marks the default.
For the meaning of
.IR suffix ,
see the section
.BR "Multiple addresses" .
.\" How to keep this in sync with the comments in the sysconfig files?
.\" FIXME: allowed values (see also ## Type:)
.\" example in the following text
.\" ---

.TP 
.BR STARTMODE\  { manual* | auto | hotplug | ifplugd | nfsroot | off }
Choose when the interface should be set up.
.RS
.PD 0
.TP
.B manual
.br
Interface will be set up if ifup is called manually (without option
.I boot
or
.I hotplug\fP)
.TP
.B auto
.br
Interface will be set up as soon as it is available (and service network was
started). This either happens at boot time when network is starting or via
hotplug when a interface is added to the system (by adding a device or loading a
driver). To be backward compliant
.B onboot\fP,
.B on
and
.B boot
are aliases for
.B auto\fP.
.TP
.B hotplug
.br
This mode is nearly the same as
.B auto\fP.
The difference between
.B auto
and
.B hotplug
is that the latter does not make
.B rcnetwork
fail if the interface cannot be brought up.
.TP
.B ifplugd
.br
The interface will be controlled from ifplugd. At initial ifup only ifplugd will
be started for this interface. Then if ifplugd detects a link if calls ifup
again which finally sets the interface up. See also variable
.B IFPLUGD_PRIORITY
below.
.TP
.B nfsroot
.br
Nearly like
.BR auto , 
but interfaces with this startmode will never be shut down via 
.I rcnetwork 
.IR stop .
.I ifdown <interface> 
still works. Use this when you use a root filesystem via network.
.TP
.B off
.br
Will never be activated.
.PD
.RE

.TP
.BR IFPLUGD_PRIORITY
If there multiple interfaces have
.B STARTMODE=ifplugd
and a nonzero priority, only one of them will be set up at a time. Every time one
of these interfaces is (un)plugged the interface with highest priority (and
plugged cable) will be set up. Default is IFPLUGD_PRIORITY='0' causing set up as
when the cable is plugged. Note: This is not supported for e.g. bridge interfaces
or bridge ports.

.TP 
.BR BOOTPROTO\  { static* | dhcp | dhcp4 | dhcp6 | autoip | dhcp+autoip | 6to4 | none }
Setup protocol. If this variable is empty or missing, it defaults to \fBstatic\fR.
.RS
.PD 0
.TP
.B static
.br
A fixed addresses specified in \fBIPADDR\fR and related variables and static
routing as defined in \fBroutes\fR and \fBifroute-\fR<\fIinterface name\fR>
files is configured.
.TP
.B dhcp4 dhcp6 dhcp
.br
A DHCPv4, DHCPv6 or both clients are started to configure the interface. The
setup is considered successful, when at least one dhcp client configures the
interface. Additionally to the dhcp client configuration, fixed addresses and
routes may also be specified.
.br
.I Note:
.br
Static routes without explicit interfaces will also replace routes to the same
destination (network) configured by dhcp clients on any interface!
.br
Static routes with explicit interface will also replace routes to the same
destination (network) configured by dhcp clients on this interface.
.TP
.B autoip dhcp+autoip
.br
may be used for a IPv6 zeroconf setup or as fall back to autoip if dhcp fails.
.TP
.BR 6to4
.br
to set up 
.I IPv6
tunnel interfaces running in the "6to4" mode.
.br
See also \fBifcfg-tunnel(5)\fR manual page.
.TP
.br
.B none
.br
For bonding slaves and bridge ports to skip the interface configuration.
It is also recommended (instead of static) for interfaces configured with
STARTMODE=nfsroot (for nfs- and iscsi-root installation), where the setup
is done in the initrd and inconsistencies could break it.
.PD
.RE

.TP 
.IR  \fBIPADDR\fR [ suffix ]\ { IPv4 | IPv6 }[ \fB/\fIPREFIXLEN ]
IP address, either IPv4 or IPv6. You may add
.B /<prefixlength>
in both cases and omit
.B NETMASK
or
.B PREFIXLEN.
If you need more then one IP address use this variable multiple times with
different suffixes added. See section
.B Multiple addresses
below. If no address is configured the interface will just be activated (UP).
.TP
.BR PREFIXLEN [ \fIsuffix\fR ]
Number of bits in IPADDR that form the network
address. Alternatively add a prefix-length to
.B IPADDR
or use
.BR NETMASK .
.B PREFIXLEN 
is preferred over
.B NETMASK.
but highest priority has a prefix-length added to the IP address in the variable
.B IPADDR.
.TP
.BR NETMASK [ \fIsuffix\fR ]
Network mask. Alternatively add a prefix-length to
.B IPADDR
or use
.BR PREFIXLEN .
This variable is ignored if a prefix-length is specified.
.TP
.BR BROADCAST [ \fIsuffix\fR ]
Network broadcast. If you omit the broadcast address, it will be calculated from
netmask or prefix-length. You can affect the calculation with the variable
.B DEFAULT_BROADCAST
in 
.I /etc/sysconfig/network/config.
See the description there.
.\" ---
.TP
.BR REMOTE_IPADDR [ \fIsuffix\fR ]
The remote IP address of a point to point  connection
.TP
.BR LABEL [ \fIsuffix\fR ]
Each address may be tagged with a label  string.   In  order  to preserve
compatibility  with Linux-2.0 net aliases, this string must coincide with the
name of the device or  must  be  prefixed with the device name followed by
colon.
This may be useful with
.B Multiple addresses
(see below).
.TP
.BR SCOPE [ \fIsuffix\fR ]
The scope of the area where this address is valid.
The available scopes are listed in file
.IR "/etc/iproute2/rt_scopes" .
Predefined scope values are:
.in +8
.B global
- the address is globally valid.
.sp
.B site
- (IPv6 only) the address is site local, i.e. it is
valid inside this site.
.sp
.B link
- the address is link local, i.e. it is valid only on this device.
.sp
.B host
- the address is valid only inside this host.
.in -8
.TP
.BR MTU
Set the maximum transfer unit (MTU) for this interface.
.TP
.BR IP_OPTIONS [ \fIsuffix\fR ]
Any other option you may want to give to the
.B ip add add ...
command. This string is appended to the command.
.TP
.B LLADDR
Set an individual link layer address (MAC address).
.TP
.B LINK_OPTIONS
Here you may add any option valid with
.B ip link set up ...
.TP
.B INTERFACETYPE
Sometimes ifup cannot determine the interface type properly. In this cases you
may specify it in this variable. 
.TP
.B ETHTOOL_OPTIONS
If this variable is not empty ifup will call ethtool with this options.
See the
.B ethtool (8)
manual page for available options.
If the option string starts with a '-' (e.g. '-K iface rx on'), then the
second word in the string will be replaced with the current interface name.
Otherwise (e.g. 'autoneg off speed 10') ifup prepends '-s <interface>'.
.TP
.BR RUN_POLL_TCPIP\  { yes* | no }
Controls running
.I /etc/ppp/poll.tcpip
when a dialup connection is established.
.TP
\fBPRE_UP_SCRIPT\fR, \fBPOST_UP_SCRIPT\fR, \fBPRE_DOWN_SCRIPT\fR and \fBPOST_DOWN_SCRIPT\fR
Here you can hook a script (better: an executable) to perform individual actions
before/after the interface is set up or before/after the interface is set down.
If you use relative filenames ifup will look for them in
.I /etc/sysconfig/network/scripts 
but you may use absolute paths as well. They were called scripts, because they
usually are scripts, but you may add also binaries here. If they are scripts,
they must be made executable.

These scripts will be called with nearly the same arguments as ifup. The only
difference is that the configuration-name (optional for ifup) is always set with
the name determined by getcfg. The configuration name is stored in the variable
.B $CONFIG
which may be used inside the ifcfg- configuration file.

If
.B BOOTPROTO=dhcp
then the post up and pre down scripts will not be executed immediately by
ifup/ifdown. Instead dhcpcd calls ifup/ifdown with a special option always after
it sets, changes or removes the IP address. Therefore post up scripts will be
executed after the interface is really up which may be much later if dhcp did not
get a lease immediately. And pre down scripts are called after dhcp shut down
the interface (not before as 'pre' would indicate. This is a problem of dhcpcd).

.TP
.B TUNNEL, TUNNEL_*
Using this variable you may set up different tunnels. See
.B ifcfg-tunnel
.BR (5)
manual page.
.TP
.B ETHERDEVICE
Needed only for virtual LANs (802.1q). It contains the real interface to use for the vlan
interface. See
.B ifcfg-vlan
.BR (5)
manual page.
.TP
.B BONDING_MASTER, BONDING_SLAVE_*, BONDING_OPTS, BONDING_MODULE_OPTS
These are used to set up interface bonding. See
.B ifcfg-bonding
.BR (5)
manual page.

.SH GENERAL VARIABLES
There are some general settings in the file
.IR /etc/sysconfig/network/config .
If needed you can also set every general variable as an individual variable in
the
.B ifcfg-*
files.
.TP
.B DEFAULT_BROADCAST
.TP
.B GLOBAL_POST_UP_EXEC
.TP
.B GLOBAL_PRE_DOWN_EXEC
.TP
.B CHECK_DUPLICATE_IP
.TP
.B DEBUG
.TP
.B USE_SYSLOG=
.TP
.B MODIFY_RESOLV_CONF_DYNAMICALLY
.TP
.B MODIFY_NAMED_CONF_DYNAMICALLY
.TP
.B MODIFY_RESOLV_CONF_STATIC_DNS
.TP
.B CONNECTION_SHOW_WHEN_IFSTATUS
.TP
.B CONNECTION_CHECK_BEFORE_IFDOWN
.TP
.B CONNECTION_CLOSE_BEFORE_IFDOWN
.TP
.B CONNECTION_UMOUNT_NFS_BEFORE_IFDOWN
.TP
.B CONNECTION_SEND_KILL_SIGNAL
.TP
.B MANDATORY_DEVICES
.TP
.B WAIT_FOR_INTERFACES
.TP
.B FIREWALL
.TP
.B LINKLOCAL_INTERFACES
.TP
.B IFPLUGD_OPTIONS

.in 7
Please see the description of these variables in 
.IR /etc/sysconfig/network/config .

.SH Multiple addresses

You can extend the variable name
.B IPADDR 
by any string you like. For example
.BR IPADDR_1 ,
.B IPADDR-FOO
or
.BR IPADDRxxx.
Use these variables for your IP addresses.
If you need some additional parameters for these addresses, then just add
the same extension to these variable names:
.B BROADCAST, NETMASK, PREFIXLEN, REMOTE_IPADDR, LABEL, SCOPE, IP_OPTIONS.

Example:
   IPADDR_AAA=1.2.3.4
   NETMASK_AAA=255.0.0.0
   BROADCAST_AAA=1.2.3.55
   IPADDR_BBB=10.10.2.3/16
   LABEL_BBB=BBB
   and so on ...
.PP
You do not need to set a label for any address. But then you should not use
.B ifconfig
any longer; go and use
.BR ip .
If you want to use
.B ifconfig
then omit the label for your main address and set a number as label for every
additional address.

.SH BUGS
Please report bugs at <http://www.suse.de/feedback>
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Christian Zoz <zoz@suse.de> -- ifup script
Michal Svec <msvec@suse.cz> -- ifup script
Bjoern Jacke -- ifup script
Mads Martin Joergensen <mmj@suse.de> -- ifup manual page
Michal Ludvig <mludvig@suse.cz> -- tunnel support
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR /etc/sysconfig/network/ifcfg.template ,
.BR ifcfg-bonding (5),
.BR ifcfg-tunnel (5),
.BR ifcfg-vlan (5),
.BR ifcfg-wireless (5),
.BR ifup (8).

