.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii ifsysctl.5
.\"
.TH IFNDP-PROXY 5 "December 2009" "sysconfig" "Network configuration"
.SH NAME
ifndp-proxy[-<interface name>] \- IPv6 \fBNDP\fR and IPv4 \fBARP\fR proxy entries
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/etc/sysconfig/network/ifndp-proxy\fR
.br
\fB/etc/sysconfig/network/ifndp-proxy-\fR<\fIinterface\ name\fR>
.SH DESCRIPTION
These files contain IPv6 \fBNDP\fR and IPv4 \fBARP\fR proxy settings,
that should be applied using the \fBip neigh add proxy\fR command
documented in the ip(8) manual page that provides a common interface
for IPv4 and IPv6.

The \fBNDP\fR/\fBARP\fR proxy is required, e.g. when IP addresses
from the same subnet have to be used on the interface of the host
as well as on interfaces behind a (tunnel) interface and using a
bridge is not an option.

Don't forget to enable forwarding and the \fBNDP\fR/\fBARP\fR proxy
by setting
.nf
	\fBnet.ipv6.conf.\fR<\fIall|default|interface name\fR>\fB.proxy_ndp = 1\fR
	\fBnet.ipv6.conf.\fR<\fIall|default|interface name\fR>\fB.forwarding = 1\fR
and/or
	\fBnet.ipv4.conf.\fR<\fIall|default|interface name\fR>\fB.proxy_arp = 1\fR
	\fBnet.ipv4.conf.\fR<\fIall|default|interface name\fR>\fB.forwarding = 1\fR
or
	\fBnet.ipv4.ip_forward = 1\fR
.fi
either as global \fIall\fR setting in the /etc/sysctl.conf file or
using the \fBifsysctl(5)\fR files, that allow per-interface setup.
.br
Forwarding can be also enabled in the \fB/etc/sysconfig/sysctl\fR
file using the \fBIP_FORWARD\fR and \fBIPV6_FORWARD\fR variables.

The proxy entries are added and deleted using the
	\fBif-\fR{\fBup\fR|\fBdown\fR}\fB.d/ndp-proxy\fR
script, every time after an involved interface has been set up or
down.

.SH SYNTAX
The format of the \fBifndp-proxy\fR file is:
.nf
<address> <address interface>     <proxy interface list>
.fi

The format of the \fBifndp-proxy-\fR<\fIaddress interface\fR> file
is same to above, but allows also to omit the address interface
by using a "-" as placeholder inside of the file, because it is
already available in the file name:
.nf
<address> <address interface | -> <proxy interface list>
.fi

Lines beginning with # and blank lines are ignored.

Each line defines to add a proxy \fBNDP\fR/\fBARP\fR entry with the
\fIaddress\fR of or behind \fIaddress interface\fR to all interfaces
in the \fIproxy interface list\fR.

.SH EXAMPLES
Let's assume, your machine is connected via eth0 to a switch with the
networks 2001:db8:abba::/64 and 192.168.100.1/24 and is using the IP
address 1 itself. You'd like to use the addresses 11 and 12 e.g. for
virtual machines behind the tap1 and tap2 interface, that is:
.nf
     2001:db8:abba::1/64       -- local eth0 address
     2001:db8:abba::11/64      -- address behind tap1
     2001:db8:abba::12/64      -- address behind tap2
     192.168.100.1/24          -- local eth0 address
     192.168.100.11/24         -- address behind tap1
     192.168.100.12/24         -- address behind tap2
.fi
then set up the following entries in the ifndp-proxy file:
.nf
     2001:db8:abba::1          eth0	tap1 tap2
     2001:db8:abba::11         tap1	eth0 tap2
     2001:db8:abba::12         tap2	eth0 tap1
     192.168.100.1             eth0    tap1 tap2
     192.168.100.11            tap1    eth0 tap2
     192.168.100.12            tap2    eth0 tap1
.fi
additionally to the routing entries in the \fBroutes\fR or
\fBifroute\fR-<\fIinterface name>\fR files.
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs at <https://bugzilla.novell.com/>
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Marius Tomaschewski <mt@suse.de>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ifup (8)
.BR ifcfg (5)
.BR ifsysctl(8)
