.\"
.\" SuSE man page ifservices
.\" Copyright (c) 2005 SUSE Linux Products GmbH, Nuernberg, Germany.
.\" please send bugfixes or comments to <http://www.suse.de/feedback>.
.\"
.\" Author: Christian Zoz <zoz@suse.de>
.\"
.\"
.TH IFSERVICES 5 "February 2005" "sysconfig" "Network configuration"
.\"
.SH NAME
.\"
ifservices-* \- control network services with ifup/down
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI /etc/sysconfig/network/ifservices- <configuration_name>/
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The directory
.BI /etc/sysconfig/network/ifservices- <configuration_name>/
is read by the script
.I /etc/sysconfig/network/scripts/ifup-services
which starts and stops system services when an interface is set up/down.
.I ifup-services
is used by
.I /sbin/ifup, 
which is the command line user interface for setting up network interfaces.
.PP
This is useful if you don't have a permanent network connection. If you
sometimes boot without network and plug in the network cable later you can add
links to system services in this directory. These services will then be started
with ifup and stopped with ifdown.
.PP
The configuration name used for
.B ifservices-*
should match exactly the configuration name of the
.B ifcfg-*
file for the interface.
.PP
For the usage with NetworkManager (where you don't necessarily need a
.B ifcfg-*
file) you can also use
.BI /etc/sysconfig/network/ifservices- <interface>-<essid>/ 
(for wlan interfaces) or if that does not exist
.BI /etc/sysconfig/network/ifservices- <interface>/ .
As a final fallback
.B /etc/sysconfig/network/ifservices/
is checked as well. If NetworkManager is active services will be stopped after
the interface is down.
.PP
The links in this directory are equal to the links in the runlevel directories
.I /etc/init.d/rc*.d/
They have to point to service start scripts which are usually in /etc/init.d/.
Links starting with 'S' are start links, which are called in alphabetical order
after ifup has set up the interface. Links starting with 'K' are kill links
which are called before ifdown takes down the interface.  See also section
.B Sequencing Directories
in
.B boot 
.BR (7) .

.SH EXAMPLE
In this example we use an interface with MAC address 00:de:ad:be:af:00. This
interface is not always physically connected. As soon as you plug in the cable
ypbind and autofs should be started. When you pull the cable they should be
stopped. This can be reached with:
.sp
in file
.I /etc/sysconfig/network/ifcfg-eth-id-00:de:ad:be:af:00

    ...
    STARTMODE=ifplugd
    ...

in dir
.I /etc/sysconfig/network/ifservices-eth-id-00:de:ad:be:af:00/

    S10portmap -> /etc/init.d/portmap
    S20ypbind  -> /etc/init.d/ypbind 
    S30autofs  -> /etc/init.d/autofs 
    S20autofs  -> /etc/init.d/autofs 
    K30ypbind  -> /etc/init.d/ypbind 

Now you have to disable the start of this services at boot time

    chkconfig ypbind off
    chkconfig autofs off

.if
.PP
Notes:
.PP
You may call
.I scripts/create-ifservices-directory [<interface_name>] 
to create a directory with the links from this example. This will create the directory
.I ifservices-<interface_name> 
or if no interface name was given 
.IR ifservices-template .
.PP
Maybe you have to add also variable IFPLUGD_PRIORITY. For details about
startmode ifplugd read
.B ifup
.BR (8) .
.PP
The service portmap had to be added because ypbind needs it. This service is
still started at boot time because it does not need an active network
connection. But ypbind may now be started earlier as usual. Therefore we make
sure that portmap is started before. Starting an already running service again
does not affect the service.


.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ifup (8),
.BR ifcfg (5).

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Christian Zoz <zoz@suse.de>
.fi
.br

