.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii ifsysctl.5
.\"
.TH IFSYSCTL 5 "December 2009" "sysconfig" "Network configuration"
.SH NAME
ifsysctl[-<interface name>] \- per network interface sysctl settings
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/etc/sysconfig/network/ifsysctl\fR
.br
\fB/etc/sysconfig/network/ifsysctl-\fR<\fIinterface\ name\fR>
.SH DESCRIPTION
These files are intended to contain \fBsysctl\fR settings, that
should be applied when a network interface is created. This are
usually interface specific settings, like:

.nf
	net.ipv6.conf.eth0.use_tempaddr = 2
or
	net.ipv4.conf.eth0.rp_filter = 0
.fi

The settings are applied by the
.B /etc/sysconfig/network/scripts/ifup-sysctl
script executed via
.B /lib/udev/rules.d/77-network.rules
rule (see \fBudev(7)\fR), after the creation and after the rename of the
interface name to its persistent name (when applicable), but before the
\fBifup <interface name> -o hotplug\fR may be executed to configure the interface.

Settings from the \fBifsysctl-\fR file are applied every time an interface has
been created.

Settings from the \fBifsysctl-\fIinterface\ name\fR file are applied when the
interface with the corresponding interface name has been created.

.SH SYNTAX
The \fBsysctl(8)\fR utility is required to apply the settings. It supports two
separator characters for sysctl keywords: a "\fB.\fR" in \fIdefault format\fR
and a "\fB/\fR" in the \fIalternate format\fR.
Therefore the syntax is basically same to the /etc/sysctl.conf file.

Interface names may contain a "\fB.\fR". In the default sysctl format using
a "\fB.\fR" as separator, that is any "\fB.\fR" in the interface name of the
keyword, has to be replaced with a "\fB/\fR". In the alternate sysctl format
with "\fB/\fR" as separator, normal interface names can be used.

.PP
\fIOptionally\fR, the ifsysctl files may contain also the \fB$INTERFACE\fR
and the \fB$SYSCTL_IF\fR variables, that are automatically replaced with the
current interface name usable in the alternate format and with the sysctl-quoted
interface name for the default format, before the settings are passed to the
sysctl utility.

\fINote also\fR, that settings with variables in the \fBifsysctl\fR (without
the -<interface name> suffix), will be applied for every interface!
.br
Further, files with variables are not compatible to the /etc/sysctl.conf file.

.SH EXAMPLES
Settings for "eth0" and "eth0.1" interfaces
.nf
	# using "." as separator:
	net.ipv6.conf.eth0.use_tempaddr = 2
	net.ipv6.conf.eth0/1.use_tempaddr = 2

	# using "/" as separator:
	net/ipv6/conf/eth0/use_tempaddr = 2
	net/ipv6/conf/eth0.0/use_tempaddr = 2
.fi

Settings with variables:
.nf
	# using "." as separator:
	net.ipv6.conf.$SYSCTL_IF.use_tempaddr = 2

	# using "/" as separator:
	net/ipv6/conf/$INTERFACE/use_tempaddr = 2
.fi

To test your ifsysctl-eth0 or ifsysctl file, use:
.nf
	/etc/sysconfig/network/scripts/ifup-sysctl eth0 -o debug
.fi
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs at <https://bugzilla.novell.com/>
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Marius Tomaschewski <mt@suse.de>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ifup (8)
.BR ifcfg (5)
.BR sysctl(8)
