.\"
.\" SuSE man page route.conf
.\" Copyright (c) 2002 SuSE Linux AG, Nuernberg, Germany.
.\" please send bugfixes or comments to <http://www.suse.de/feedback>.
.\"
.\" Author: Mads Martin Joergensen <mmj@suse.de>
.\"
.\"
.TH ROUTES 5 "January 2003" "sysconfig" "Network configuration"
.\"
.SH NAME
.\"
routes \- configure the routing table
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/sysconfig/network/routes
.br
.BI /etc/sysconfig/network/ifroute-*
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The files
.B /etc/sysconfig/network/routes
and
.BI /etc/sysconfig/network/ifroute- config
are parsed by the script
.B /etc/sysconfig/network/scripts/ifup-route
which sets up routing for an interface/configuration.
.B ifup-route
is used by
.B /sbin/ifup, 
which is the command line user interface for setting up network interfaces.
.PP
.B /etc/sysconfig/network/routes 
is used for every interface while
.BI /etc/sysconfig/network/ifroute- config
is used only for the network interface configuration stored in 
.BI /etc/sysconfig/network/ifcfg- config , 
that means only for a certain interface. (See a discussion of the notions
.IR configuration ,
.I interface
and
.I device in
.BR ifup (8).)
.PP
At boot time
.B /etc/init.d/network 
calls
.B ifup
for every existing configuration and uses
.B ifup-route
directly to set
up special routes which do not belong to a certain interface.

The current routes can be seen by issuing:
.PP
.RS
.B /sbin/ip\ route\ list
.RE
.PP
which will give the current routing table.
.\"
.SH Syntax
The files
.B /etc/sysconfig/network/routes
and
.BI /etc/sysconfig/network/ifroute- config
use the same syntax. The only difference is the interpretation of an empty
interface field. See 4th column below.

Lines beginning with
.B #
and 
.B blank lines 
are ignored. There are 5 columns with special meaning.
Write a dash "-" if you want to omit an entry for a field. If all following
fields in the line are empty too, you can even omit the dash.

The
.B first column 
gives the destination, written as the IP-address of
a host or a network. The heading
.B default
indicates that the route is the default gateway. Do
.BR not\  use\  0.0.0.0
for this purpose. A prefix-length can be used; e.g.,
.B 10.10.0.0/16
is valid.

The
.B second column 
contains the gateway. Write here the regular IP-address of a
host which routes the packages to a remote host or remote network. You can omit
this information for rejecting routes.

The 
.B third column 
gives the netmask for a remote
host or remote network behind a gateway.
For the default route or if you were using
a prefix-length in the first column, you can omit it.

The 
.B fourth column 
gives the name of the interface
of the local networks (lo, eth0, eth0:1, eth1, isdn0, ppp0, dummy0, ...).

If you leave this field empty the result depends on the file you are using. In
.B /etc/sysconfig/network/routes
the field is interpreted as no interface information available. That is
sufficient for the most routes you may set up, but if you have multiple
interfaces this route is set up
with every single interface you activate. This may lead to error messages in the
syslog. If you see such an error message which tells you "... this needs NOT to
be AN ERROR" then check if you wrote the wrong ip
addresses or if it occurs because it's being set up with the wrong interface.

In the latter case you may want to use
.BI /etc/sysconfig/network/ifroute- config
instead. Here an empty interface field is always replaced with the interface
name that is currently being activated. This makes sense because this file is
only used for one configuration (for one interface). This is even necessary if
you use several hot-pluggable devices, because you cannot know the name of the
interface that is used with a configuration for a certain device before.


The
.B fifth column 
can be used to specify the type of a route:
.TP
.B
unicast
The route entry describes real paths to the destinations covered by the route
prefix.
.TP
.B
local
The destinations are assigned to this host. The packets are looped back and
delivered locally.
.TP
.B
broadcast
The destinations are broadcast addresses. The packets are sent as link
broadcasts.
.TP
.B
multicast
A special type used for multicast routing. It is not present in normal routing
tables.
.TP
.B
throw
A special control route used together with policy rules. If such a route is
selected, lookup in this table is terminated pretending that no route was
found. Without policy routing it is equivalent to the absence of the route in
the routing table. The packets are dropped and the ICMP message
.I
net unreachable
is generated. The local senders get an ENETUNREACH error.
.TP
.B
unreachable
These destinations are unreachable. Packets are discarded silently. The local
senders get an EINVAL error.
.TP
.B
prohibit
These destinations are unreachable. Packets are discarded and the ICMP message
.I
communication administratively prohibited
is generated. The local senders get an EACCES error.
.TP
.B
blackhole
These destinations are unreachable. Packets are discarded silently. The local
senders get an EINVAL error.
.TP
.B
nat
A special NAT route. Destinations covered by the prefix are considered to be
dummy (or external) addresses which require translation to real (or internal)
ones before forwarding. The addresses to translate to are selected with
attribute 'via'.
.PP
Any remaining columns, if given, are appended to the route command.  This
makes it possible to pass special options for this route. Columns
which are not needed should contain a minus sign (
.B -
) to ensure that the parser correctly interprets the command.
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
An example with common network interfaces and some static routes:
.sp
.nf
.ne 7
# Destination     Dummy/Gateway     Netmask            Device
#
127.0.0.0         0.0.0.0           255.255.255.0      lo
204.127.235.0     0.0.0.0           255.255.255.0      eth0
default           204.127.235.41    0.0.0.0            eth0
207.68.156.51     207.68.145.45     255.255.255.255    eth1
192.168.0.0       207.68.156.51     255.255.0.0        eth1

.fi
.PP
An example for routing entries for synchronous ppp over a
.B ISDN
connection.
.sp
.nf
.ne 5
# Destination     Dummy/Gateway     Netmask            Device
#
127.0.0.0         0.0.0.0           255.255.255.0      lo
193.102.150.13    0.0.0.0           255.255.255.255    ippp0
default           193.102.150.13    0.0.0.0            ippp0

.fi
.PP
.\"
.SH NOTES
SuSE Linux >= 8.0 uses the
.B ip
command from the
.B iproute2
package to setup the network and routes.  Please see the documentation 
distributed with this package for more information.
.SH FILES
.B /etc/sysconfig/network/routes
.br
.BI /etc/sysconfig/network/ifroute- config
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Michal Svec <msvec@suse.cz>
Christian Zoz <zoz@suse.de>
Mads Martin Joergensen <mmj@suse.de>
.fi
.br

Thanks to Werner Fink <werner@suse.de> for the old route.conf(5).
.BR
Parts of the
.B
ip
reference by Alexey Kuznetsov <kuznet@ms2.inr.ac.ru> were also used.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR init.d (7),
.BR init (8),
.BR inittab (5),
the\ documentation\ for\ the\ 
.B iproute2
package and the
.I SuSE Linux
handbook, chapter
.IR The\ SuSE\ boot\ concept .
